Was probably harder.
Yeah. So not much else I can say.
Yeah, Think that's pretty fast.
Back to base. Yeah, I think, you know, I.
Yeah. Sure.
She. Right.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. All right. Good morning, everyone. I'm assuming everyone here, as far as see, is 585 is grad course dealing with natural language processing.
How many of you have met me before? You all right?
So. Well, I have to introduce myself first.
But before I do that, I understand. Well, I'm talking to maybe a third of you.
This group is supposed to be about 100 students right now where everybody else is.
But clearly, most of your registrants for this class live under the assumption that Professor Arco will be doing it right.
Unfortunately, Professor Argaman was left this year and I took over,
so I will not be open that if you choose student throughout this course, because why am I doing this?
We're back. I think around there we're in a natural language.
Processing is not my primary area, I call it.
He is one which is an undergrad version of it, a little lower lo scale.
So it's not like I don't know what I'm doing, but they're Anyway, this is not my research area.
I'll do my best. Another fair warning. I learned that I will be doing this for about two and a half weeks ago.
So it will be, well, a bit of an improvization as we go.
So fair warning. Everybody understand that I'll do my best.
I'm not going to hide things that I don't know.
So ask me questions. Now with that out of the way, for those who don't know me, my name is the outlook.
JAKOSKY That's at the top. If you can't pronounce it, that's fine.
I'm sure I can pronounce some of your names either. So as long as I know that you're talking to me, we're fine.
How many of you are registered for CSI? 85. 81 as well.
Okay, So you're you're about to hear more or less the same spiel later today.
Uh, who am I? I've been a variety for way too long.
I suppose I got my bachelors in robotics and coal, and I get my Masters and Peabody here at AP, and I've been teaching.
There are since 2019. So it's been a while.
As far as my experience with natural language processing, I taught CS for 81, as I said, for two years this year of teaching.
And again, it will be a much different experience, of course, with Chad shipped out there.
So everything well gained changed a lot.
Now how to contact me. Email is preferred, so please don't use Blackbird to send me emails just directly email me.
I don't check. I mean, it's much harder for me to see emails in Blackboard than in my mailbox.
You'll get the response eventually, but this is much easier.
My office is upstairs. My office hours are going to be after this class on Wednesdays and Tuesdays and Thursdays around lunchtime.
If you can't make it, this is mostly for online students.
Is request meeting or we'll find out.
Thanks a lot for that. Questions so far.
All right. So before I go further, how many of you are here Because it's a required course for you.
Don't you want it? Right. That works even better.
All right. Where should we go next?
I have one thing you to get out of the way as well.
So let me ask you a question. What? What is my role here in Europe?
According to you. I'm your instructor.
What is my role? Because I want to make sure that there is no disappointments and misunderstandings.
At the end of the semester. Okay, so what is my role?
I'm just on the person to help you understand the course content to hopefully teach you something.
And then the worst part is I have to grade you, right?
So keep that in mind. I will do my best to teach you.
Then we will have exams and I will grade. I have to grade.
I will call it as I see you. All right. I fail people.
That's not to say that I will fail any of you.
But don't expect rule to is, Hey, I can't fail people, right?
The point is, you get to work. Okay, so let's set that expectation.
I'm here to teach you and then to Grady to evaluate.
How much knowledge have you retain. I will have to do it.
I will do it, and I will. There will be no personal sympathy ins or something like that.
This is your exam. This is your grade. There are enough.
All right. Now. Don't take that a wrong way.
I have to. I have to organize this course or my semester.
Somehow. I have almost 400 students this semester, which is up over 50% more than last one.
Is that a lot? It is.
So in order to.
Help you go through the semester and all your colleagues in other classes for three other classes.
I'd like you to help me with that by following some of the rules.
So. Well, you're a grad student, so I have.
I guess I can assume that most of you can read it. It's an email.
I hope so. I've seen examples of something else, but I don't know what it means.
Here is a little link at the top review.
Second bullet point there. This is very important for okay at this.
Do your subject when we're in your email. I know some some of you will forget it, but try at least that will help me quickly decide.
What is this email about? Right. Where is it coming from? I don't know your names just yet.
I will try to learn as many of them as possible. So please, please, please have identified your email subject.
So I look at it and see what is it about the third one?
I will. I promise I will try to answer all your emails in a timely fashion, especially for online students or in-person students.
I expect you to be here and ask your questions here. But if for some reason you have to ask me offline,
please do check the syllabus blackboard discussion board or review your lectures before you ask me a question.
I might have already answered that. That happens all the time.
It will save everybody some time. Blackbird discussion board will go to Red at some point is a great place for you to ask questions,
as is a greater for me because I can answer it and everybody can feel other than just responding to the same questions 40 or 30 times.
Okay. I understand some of you are shy.
Some of you may have good command of English.
Your English is your secondary language. Might not want to use the discussion board.
But buddy, if that's not a problem, please do use discussion board.
There is a little section general course related questions I have.
Get there. Everyone will see my answer. All right, another important one.
I know you love chat, use and all that stuff that writes things for you when you're writing your emails to me.
Please spare me that.
I don't want to scroll through two pages of only the lines with my goals and blah blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Get to the point. All right, people like I need this.
Can you explain that? Two paragraphs to that should suffice.
Can we have that? You guys are adults. You can write things on your own.
All right. The next one is sort of just to set expectations.
I'm not promising that I will be responding to you on weekends and after hours.
I probably will, because I don't have a life and I love my students so much.
But just don't expect that. Okay? I know you're getting everything in one second at three where your services are.
Hey. And I give it to you right now. You want to use.
Let's have a look. Right. Last one.
Sounds probably harsh. It's not meant to be harsh, but it's true.
If you're skipping classes that there's hundreds of you or something in section zero one,
I will not be taking attendance here, even though I expect you to be here.
Okay. But skipping the class and then coming back to me when you have recordings available.
Hey, can you explain the entire lecture again for me?
Just for me, because I wasn't there. I was watching Netflix or I was playing my favorite game and I didn't care about you.
Right. That's rude. I mean, plus, I may not have the time to help you with that, right?
Even though I'm fine, I'll do it. So.
Once again, setting expectations. Unless needed.
I promise I will respond to you with within one business day.
If I did that, that means that I probably miss your email.
Please remind me about it. Okay. Is that clear?
All right. Questions? Justin Bieber.
So today we're not going to be doing any actual lectures, just full production.
I'll go over the syllabus to set the rules so no one.
Nothing will be big about the course. There will be no office hours this week, so I will hold my office hours, three days a week.
I will respond to your emails. I imagine you will have about 40, maybe five days for this course.
I only have one name so that you will be updated on that.
But of course they will not hold your office hours.
If you need anything from me. This week.
Just email or ask me before or after the lecture.
That's fine. Uh, first communication.
Everything. Everything that you need from me will be on Blackboard.
I will let you know what the plan is, what you remember about in Blackboard quizzes.
So of quizzes, if anything.
Quizzes as in multiple choice questions, that sort of thing, to help you refresh your memory.
I'm considering adding those two to the course.
They're not they're not going to be a fundamental part of the course, as in, there will be no quizzes you will be graded on.
Those who were in my first writing class know what it means to not have those in this course.
I might just post quiz here. Practice.
Okay. Here's a bunch of question questions.
Go through it. See if you understand the questions. Understand what?
What this name means, what this acronym is about.
It will be for practice purposes only. Okay. If anything that depends on on time that I have but assignments.
I'll go to Blackboard in a bit. In a bit. Assignments.
Announcements. Your grades will be in Blackboard grade wise.
Keep in mind that. Oh, the weights will not be added in Blackboard.
No, the weights will be in the syllabus. If you want to find out what your score is for the course, you will have to recalculate it yourself.
The reason I'm doing it that way is because, well, especially for this course, since it's my first time.
I. Having planned exactly how many assignments there will be, it will kind of depend on your performance to some degree.
It will all depend on the pace of the course.
I have no idea how this will play out. Out. I want you to.
Well, it will. The pacing of the earth will, to some degree, depend on you.
If I need to stop or slow down or speed up something, I will after consulting.
Is that fair? And that will translate to the amount of assignments.
We'll talk about those questions.
All right. So let's go to Blackboard for a second. As everyone received my blackboard announcement.
Okay. You haven't. That's that means that there is some problem that we need to resolve.
Luckily, it's not a problem.
All right, so here is your 585 blackboard page.
There is the syllabus. I will update it at least once with T.A. information.
It's not like I'm going to be in the middle of the semester. I'm not going to change the syllabus entirely as there will be an update.
I will put a time stamp here so you can see where it was updated.
But the only thing that I plan to change is adding information.
Everything is in there. I expect to read in the past years the information about me and my office hours.
If and if I see an email from one of you with a question.
Hey, where is your office? I'm going to lose it. All right.
You guys are 20 somethings. Students should be able to find that.
Why am I bringing it up? It happens every semester. Hey, where is your office?
Like, All right. This is information about me.
TBD for days. All the information email where they will be holding their office hours, how long they will be here.
I will let you know what you do. Or this is probably not super important, but.
There is a serious department page with all sorts of stuff.
Seeing students. I don't even know what's here. I just added it.
Maybe someone will find it useful. Just a short book for your academic calendar for the semester.
So you know, where's the deadline to withdraw from this wretched course?
Okay. Textbooks. Let's go to slides for a second.
There is no required textbook for this course.
The reason for that is. Well, I told you that I'm not an expert in that,
but I've been looking at text books drawn up for a while and the single one that will become comprehensive.
And, you know, there are three references that I will.
With YouTube every once in a while as an optional reading.
These are. The optional extra that I'm talking about.
The first one is, well, almost 25 years old, actually, without five months.
Right. So. It is kind of it is dated.
You can find a PDF on it online.
I will not for copyright reasons. I will not share it with you.
But you can find it if you knew the stuff in there is, I will.
I wouldn't call it obsolete because it stops.
But things are not being done that way anymore to a large extent.
However, there's a lot of interesting background information on.
What do you have to do in A.P. and how it was tackled in the past?
We'll spend some time in this course going through historical approaches,
eventually arriving at these or whatnot by the end of the semester in the second half of the semester.
So this will be relevant. To some degree, I will not give you any reading assignments from from that textbook.
I own it. But if you find it somewhere and you are really interested in help, it's still worth your while.
Okay. These two. This is probably the as far as I'm concerned, this is probably the best one.
The most comprehensive one. There is a third edition in the making right now.
It has been in the making for a while because this one was published in 2008.
The good news is. This is.
This is the one. This is a third edition draft online for free for you to review.
Of course, it's a draft, so it's being updated. There's bugs in it, so take it with a grain of salt.
I will give you reading list optional reading assignments from this source.
Okay. You have a link and use it.
It actually gets pretty good in my opinion. The second one.
Is. This is probably the newest one.
This one's not my favorite, but it's good and you can find it all the way as well.
There's a link to the GitHub page somewhere here. The notes are really a draft of top of the of the book.
This is a grad class right here, mostly grad students.
I do expect you to explore on your own and so I will not be forcing you to go and read this and that, but I will be.
The idea is I will cover a topic in class.
And if you want to learn more, here are resources for you to go to look up topic.
Look up the algorithm. Whatever. Follow up.
Okay. You can ask me where should I look for or more?
That's fine. I welcome requests.
Hey, can you point me do some YouTube? Resources that cover this or that topic.
I will not. I don't keep out a lot about the use of resources, but I will look it up for you.
Fair warning. There's a lot of crap on it, but seriously bad, bad material that won't just mislead you or that the explanations will be off.
So I will try to, if anyone to I will try to find something that is in sync with reality.
All right. Don't believe everything on the Internet.
People believe that the earth is flat right now.
There was some bad stuff about Michael, but read it and make your decision, whatever you want to state.
All right. Textbooks clear. If I find anything else, I'll share it with you along the way.
A meeting and a new textbook shows up. I don't want you to buy anything.
I don't want you to purchase any textbooks. If you are into A.P., you might consider getting a hard copy for one of these entirely optional questions.
Okay. So here's what we're going to do every week.
Those who know me. There's nothing new here. We'll meet in class.
Right here. I don't think the room will change. I doubt it.
On Mondays and Wednesdays that every week around Wednesday, I will send you a black birth announcement with your weekly to do list.
This will be a reminder. Here's what I want you to do for the next couple of days.
It will be mostly in sync with what I'm doing in class.
Sometimes that to do list will see what I will cover.
Sometimes it will follow you. Sometimes I will not be reminding you.
I will forget to remind you. Here's an assignment in a week.
But Blackbird will remind you about it as well. In other words, your aggressiveness.
You have to keep track of it yourself. But I'll do my best to include everything.
Okay. Full disclosure for working.
I can't do copy paste stuff a lot, and every once in a while I will slip up and something will not add up.
Just. Okay. Hey, what's this about? All right.
This does not add up. Okay, I will correct it.
I can admit my own mistakes, which is arriving these days, so I don't have a problem with that.
Call me on it because I expect to call you on stuff, I think.
Oh, is that okay? And I call you on your behalf sometimes, if there's any.
All right. What do you do? Lists. We'll have reminders about what do you have to do?
Reading, viewing assignments and information about your written and programing assignments as well.
So I will announce your assignments ahead of time.
Sometimes I will tell you what it's. What is it going to be about?
Not that it changes a whole lot. And then here is something that I hope you will be using is the discussion board where you can ask your question.
Questions about assignments. There is probably some more stuff that some other threads there will be started here for now.
You have general cursor related questions. Ask anything you like.
I will probably add a thread about coding and python.
How are you feeling about python? Good.
But I don't need to hold anyone's hand. I have to do that.
We can talk. Okay. So discussion board is something that you should check frequently, especially once the assignments start.
Because from my experience I get questions via email that I already answered in the discussion board.
I don't want to be rude. I checked the discussion board, but it will be here if it's not here.
Might as well ask me a question. What do you mean by that?
How do you handle that? Right. Use it. All right.
Since we're back in black words, Blackbird class notes.
Expect this section to expand. This is where a word of your materials will be.
Lecture slides will be posted typically before the lecture.
Sometimes I don't anticipate that for this course, but sometimes I will not post a slide that before the lecture.
If I want to have a discussion without you having the answers in front of you.
But that's that is going to be rare. And if that happens, you will get your slide back afterwards.
Now, another full disclosure. I've heard complaints about myself in the past and how he's just using slides and reading those slides.
I don't read all the slides. Sometimes I wonder if it's a definition, but you trust me.
You don't want me writing on the board, especially this board right here, those various mobile.
So what I do is I will create a slide deck with enough details in a step by step, walk through, through,
through a problem or something like that, so I can refer through it without using that you can see to scribble.
Okay. And then. That's just that gesture.
Okay. So slight backs are going to be there for you. Can I make a comment here?
General Colbert. So once again, I have not taught this course before, but I've dealt with grad students since four for 8480,
which for those who don't know, is introduction to it. I. In.
Oh, some of them. They bailed out, of course.
And my observation is. Once again, Internet may say something different, that I'm the most horrible person that is has no morals, empathy whatsoever.
But my observation is. People who do not come to lectures.
People do not take notes. People who do not ask questions are the ones who say thank back.
I know that having a slide deck online is very convenient because you have everything in one place.
But from my experience, I'm twice her age.
Taking notes yourself. Helps a lot.
You don't like writing or your brand type it, whatever, but it really helps.
I don't care if you will do it. It's. It's you. Whatever your system is, whatever your preference is.
I don't care. That's just fair warning. Look at that house.
So even though I will post everything in there, scribble on it, add an added comment, whatever.
So you know what we're dealing. That's just my experience.
Lecture slides. There will be more. I'll post some links to YouTube videos.
I will probably have some worked out examples here as well.
And we'll see. We'll play it by ear. Okay. Worked out examples will show up in the class for some reason.
I will be talking to you and whatever I have in front of me is not cutting.
I need something more. I'll add something. Okay. Check frequently during class recording.
Panopto section is where the recordings of of lectures will be.
This is a message mostly for for online students.
I do not record them myself. I do not control them.
I do not create or fix technical issues with that support desk.
Okay. Now it's 21st century.
So I decided to merge the Blackboard page for all my sections.
So that means that both in in-person section and online section have access to recordings.
Of course, many of you will use that as an excuse not to show up.
You're adults. You might pay for it.
Trust me, I've seen that over and over. Watch all the videos just before the exam.
I'll just go skim through the slides and I'll be fine.
Some of you will. So there were any those I get.
So I'm not hiding that. It's available to everyone for review if you're not able to make it.
By all means, use it. Fair. Or do you want me to hide it?
Of course. All right. So that's. That's Blackbird.
I'm assuming everyone knows how to use Blackboard otherwise for checking grades online, though.
Okay, well, questions. So far, so good.
All right. Well. What will you need other than Blackbird?
Oh, you will need a computer with Python. Is there a question lurking in in the audience?
Can I use FORTRAN or COBOL or I don't know JavaScript to do for my assignments?
Is there a question like that out there? If Python is not your preferred programing language.
I understand. It's not mine either. I don't consider it a superb language.
The reason I will insist on using Python here is for grading purposes.
Okay. So what I think right now all three sections are it's almost 150 students in this course.
There is 48. There's going to be a lot of grading if we can have some consistency, an automated rating to some degree, that works for everyone.
You will get your grades faster. Does that make sense? This is the main reason behind using Python here.
The second main reason is Python is a these days and most most of the NLP libraries are in Python.
You don't want to break up your cells though.
I may ask you to write some things from scratch and NLP related by the way on.
This is a serious course. I understand that you want to learn about tragedy, transform architecture, so whatnot.
You're right. Because it's hot stuff right now.
But it's this is a serious course, which means that we are more slanted towards the your understanding, implementing,
modifying or operating versus just using it a type in this command in Python and you will get this, is that clear?
So that's my expectation. You know, decent math statistics and programing skills.
Do we have that? All right.
See, attending the class, As I said it, it does help.
I will not be chasing or hurting you to come into the class.
In fact, there is going to be an intangible class participation factor, which some of you were familiar with, who took my class before.
So I'll be keeping an eye on your attendance.
I remember faces. I will keep an eye on your class participation.
This helps me to understand where you are really with your interest.
If I never interact with you, if I never see you in class, all I have to deal with is your assignments,
which I don't really care that much about in your exams, because I have to give you the grade.
Right. And then if I have your exam. What I see is what you get.
All right. But we'll get back to it.
So my advice, half the class that really makes a difference should see us skills.
How many of you are announced? Yes. Is there anyone here think there is one biomed student online line or something like that?
Well, data structures is recursion. I don't suppose that's a problem.
Oh, let me backtrack. How many of you are?
For How many of you see this was not your undergrad program.
Okay. So I understand that you went through Sears for a one for 30, right?
Maybe. Hopefully. If you need help with any of these, just just ask.
All right. I'm not. And to some degree, I will take the assumption.
I will make the assumption that you all know everything and are comfortable with algorithms.
Data are structures. I know it's not the case even with CSS students.
I will not leave you hanging if you are missing something, but you have to approach me.
I need help with this and that. Okay. You will need the.
Problem solving skills. Abstract thinking. I always add it here because my exams are designed to test your understanding.
Okay. What does it mean? It certainly does not mean.
Here, here's a list of 100 questions. Memorize them and I will pick ten of them.
So you can you. Maybe you will remember that this is not what I will be talking about.
Something in class. You will be doing something in your assignment.
And then I will take that on the exam, flip it around, turn it around and make you solve a problem.
It will not be difficult, but you will have to look at things at different perspectives.
If you don't understand the concept, it will be a problem. Is that clear?
So you have to have them. Memorizing is something that I abhor.
Okay, so there are things that you have to memorize, but. Use that kind of curiosity of the mind.
Of course, creativity. Yeah, I like that.
Okay. Someone's creative. Here is where I dislike creativity.
Mind you, if you find a loophole on the exam that will make your life easier.
I hate that. I will close that loophole and during the next semester I will give you credits there.
Okay. That was a side note.
Speaking of which. When in doubt.
But I will be grading or making some sort of a decision unless you did something or blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
I will rule in your favor. Okay. I'm not sure.
How to grade your work exactly. It will be probably more in your favor than that.
Okay. All right.
Questions? Page.
This will be updated. So nothing new. All right.
Exams. There will be two exams.
Dates are already in the syllabus. Anyone who has a problem with those dates, this is the time.
I mean, the next few days, this is the time to bring it up.
The exams will not be cumulative, meaning that half of the material, the second half of the material.
Oh, don't blow it and start learning.
On day one, you will be allowed to have a one double sided letter size cheat sheet for your exams.
Fair warning, no electronic devices. There will be a need for calculator, regular cutlery.
This maybe. No airpods, no phones, no nothing.
I will explain the rules before, but I'm laying it out right right now for you.
Nothing on the exam. And I promise you that it will go beyond lectures and assigned work.
That does not mean that there is not going to be a little working or two or three questions that are testing.
What are you actually paid attention to at some point?
To me? Okay, I have the right to ask you anything about.
But the material that we got. I will not provide sample exams even just because I don't have it.
I have never taught this course. And then plus, I don't do.
I don't like doing that. That's not.
And in my blood, your assignments and your coursework and your attendance should serve as a preparation for your exam.
Is that clear? The last line is very, very important.
I have no reason to distrust you. The distrust.
But then again, I have tons of reasons to distrust you based on my experience.
So exams are my only real significant way of evaluating of what you love.
Right? I will not be hovering around your head when you're completing your assignment to check whether you're cheating or okay.
I know people do that all the time now with all of my services.
This isn't something that I'm not going to be fighting. Okay.
You're getting your assignments. Make the best of it if you choose to.
Cheat there. Then you get away from it. It's very likely that I will find out on your exam and your exams will matter.
But in the end, when I won't be assigning your final grade.
If your assignments are spotless and your exams are.
Horrible. There's a very logical, logical connection in my mind.
Hey, something does not add up. And the example will be my leading source of information.
All right. Assignments, as I said, use them to study and prepare for exams.
I will help you with your assignments if you're stuck.
I will not give you solutions, of course, but I'll give you a chance.
Just ask for them. They're not going to be hard.
There's not going to be extra credit. I don't do extra credit in my courses.
Why? I find that unfair to people who work in the entire semester.
I don't know. So I'll ask if there is going to be any extra credit.
It will be for the entire group. That's the only fair way that I know of.
Simply don't let assignments. I think I give everyone enough time to complete assignments.
Way more than it's necessary to complete them, and I would expect you to complete them on time.
There will be a ten minute grace, grace period for you to submit your work.
Afterwards, your assignment is going to be considered as late as gets your reports.
There's one exception. You can play the card once during the semester.
You can submit your work within 16 hours of the deadline and you will get 50% of the credit.
This is known. Not negotiable. I will not be here.
Procrastination. Okay. There's always people do it all the time.
You do the work. I'm going to respect that. And they all will be treated fairly.
That's good. Having said that, there is nothing wrong in asking me for an extension.
I will decide whether you will get that extension or not.
This is not going to be like a week extension, a day or two, depending on the weight of the assignment.
But whilst this extension is given. No late submissions whatsoever.
No. This is for the most part.
To make the course run smoothly for years, to have the time to grade it for you to be prepared for the exam.
And so on and so on. I. If it wasn't for that having just completed and submitted, I don't care.
But it has to happen in some structured fashion.
So I'm not it. It may sound like I'm straight, but you will have enough forever.
All right, Who else?
Oh, this is what I wanted to say. This is a tricky subject.
So bear with me.
I understand that regardless of all the convenience of the modern university, there is a lot of pressure on you, financial and otherwise.
And there is. There's always mental health or other issues at play for some of you.
Usually if there is a problem of that nature of any other or any other nature, please stop.
Okay. In private, I will keep it to myself. Or if it applies to whatever, just.
I don't because this is optional. You don't have to talk to me about it.
There is something that I need to know that affects your performance.
I mean, it doesn't mean that I will make some special accommodations for you every time I might.
This is to say that I'm not a heartless person.
I recognize that it's just not necessarily something that I can help you with.
Okay. You have to deal with that in your self procrastination, your.
Your whatever. What's going in your head? I'm not trying to make your life miserable.
I understand certain things. There's not much I can do.
If I want to remain fair to others. But we're human beings.
We should communicate. Sounds good. For medical reasons.
You have to document this applies to exams.
Don't expect rescheduling because of because while you want to go and see Taylor Swift tonight other than studying, let's be real.
Okay? US. And by the way, this is something that I experienced and it seems to be on the rise.
People make up excuses about things they should not be making up excuses about, like, Hey, someone died in my family.
No one died. So when you're trying to gain my sympathy that way.
This is not cool. Okay? Same with mental health issues.
This is even worse if you're just going to pretend so you can get happen that way.
I can't question that. So don't. Please don't do that. It happened in the past is this is why I'm bringing it up.
Okay, we can talk about problems, but just don't lie.
All right? Anything else? Questions? Can we go to the syllabus?
How many of you want to quit the class already? All right, syllabus.
I expect you to read it on your own. How much time do we have? About half an hour.
All right. Do it. This information was covered already.
Exam dates. This is in part we will we will have our final I planned our final for the last week of classes.
Not the week of finals. The reason I do that is with almost 400 students, I will trying to grade that before the semester is over.
And I need time to be able to show your graded exam to you as well.
This is the only reason why I'm making it. Is that okay?
This will be our last session. We're actually kind of lucky because, well, after 1240, this is your lunch break, so.
Unless anyone objects for exams, I can just extend the session more time for the exam without the okay,
cut into your meal time so you can have more time to solve your problems.
Related full. Once the exam comes up a lot.
You hear this? This will be.
I've seen it. Let's we go Let's talk about the topics that we will cover in this one.
What are your expectations later? What do you want to learn?
You get a grade and go? Possibly.
Okay. The plan is, as I said before, to kind of at.
Semester in the first part of the semester,
a little above that will be kind of going through historical approaches to NLP and plucking certain components of it that are still valuable.
I will tell you probably a lot of times that a.
This is not exactly how things are being done at the moment.
But that doesn't mean that you should disregard that there is some application for some of those algorithms that will go over.
So how many of you have any machine learning background?
Oh, okay. So I guess we'll do a little introduction to machine learning as well, because the second part will be,
you know, Transformers chapter three is how, how do those things work?
Of. I'll be blunt. We will not build a church, a fully functional church in this class.
And you probably know the reason. Right. You you know, you don't have the processing power.
And first, first and foremost, data.
That they used. Or any other company.
But we will. I plan to have at least one assignment that kind of mimic working with or building apart a large language model.
I once again, I was given this course two weeks and a half ago, so I don't have a full blown plan.
But this is this is in my mind. Well, we'll we'll get it.
So at the very least come coming out of this course, you will understand what is behind tragedies or any other large language.
What you mean We may not be able to to to build it from scratch, but it will do something about it.
Is that I. Okay. This stuff right here.
It's going to be. Basics.
Sort of a word that natural language processing came from whatever the components were, bits and pieces.
Here's another thing that I have to mention.
I'm not a I don't have a linguistic background so that that doesn't necessarily get in, get get in the way of teaching.
You know, especially nowadays, linguistics or the understanding of the language is, is less and less relevant for first to making NLP work.
But it matters especially how many of you would like to look to build and NLP model in your own language.
I'm assuming some of you are more than bilingual or trilingual, right?
That in that case, having some linguistic understanding helps.
Most obviously, English is not my primary language as well, so I'll take that as well.
As a as a factor, I understand you it so.
How many of you are concerned with? Ethical.
Applications out there. Raise your hand.
It's fitting. Let's have it. Let's make money off of it.
Right. Here's the thing.
This is my personal opinion. It doesn't mean I'm.
So can I do a little rant? Like a little rant?
Yes. The speed, the pace with which it changes right now is it's crazy.
It's just it's just mind blowing. One way it affects you in this course is that I'm.
Definitely not going to tell you about the latest and greatest or whatnot.
By the time we're done with this semester, there's probably going to be a million other developments.
So catching up with the novelties is going to be hard.
Actually, you know, university courses used to be used to be ten years behind.
And we're teaching things that are established and gelled and solidified about ten years ago or so, and that has to speed up.
Obviously, it's hard. Second thing, as much as I would like to uncover everything that is under the control of tragedy or whatnot,
or you won't be able to because it's proprietary, we'll never, unless you work for open, they will not know what's inside.
So I can't you that. Third, and this is what I was getting at.
How many of you are aware of us of all sorts of legal battles being opened in A.I. or other companies?
That that creative, generative A.I. tools some of you.
So essentially the the bottom line is that tools such as as GPP.
Collect use the data that was collected not necessarily in a legal way.
Recently, I read about New York New York Times having a legal battle with open dude.
Hey you guys is our user article with articles without pay, right?
So this is an ongoing problem. And my guess is that the way and tools will be created in the few near future is is going
to be affected by that opening or whoever will not be allowed to use a certain data.
Without permission. And that will definitely affect some sort of some parts of the model, some some quality.
So I want you to have that in mind that whatever we will talk about might change.
And there is an ethical component to it that cannot be disregarded anymore.
And I forgot what my training was, but.
Oh. We'll talk about that part as well.
You have to call. Aspen.
How. Oh, I got.
I mention mentioned that parts of the material are kind of dated, right?
Some of you understand machine learning as well. Right.
If you do understand machine learning, you should know that.
Can you explain what the machine learning algorithm does every time?
Not necessarily. There are algorithms that are explainable where you can go back and say all of this is because there was an even statement there.
This is what happened. And there is algorithms that are not explainable or are very difficult to explain.
So the reason I brought up those legal battles, this is not only privacy, this is not only copyright issues, but there is also a worry.
Why did you write that? You. Explain it to me.
And that is going to be a problem.
And if that becomes a large problem, enough people might revert in some cases to, hey, we were doing it in a different way before.
It wasn't as good as Chuck D or neural network, but at least I can use it to explain it.
Does that make sense?
So my point is that the stuff that we that's historically a part of anarchy that is not so used anymore might come back to some degree.
All right. Second part conversa conversational ai large language models, which is chap chip and whatnot, generic the VHS game.
But. Or more in the emails generating new text.
Other than just giving more simple responses, yes or no classification, that sort of thing.
These will be the. Closing.
Topics for this semester. All right.
Anything? Is there anything that is missing here that you would like to add?
You're welcome. This is your class. You're welcome to suggest something.
I will most likely come back and say I refuse to do that.
Just kidding. But that there may be no time for that.
Or it might be. It may require a certain level of understanding that is not in that group.
So we'll see. You're welcome to bring up.
Can we talk about this? I will take a look at your suggestion, if I can.
I will plug it in. Within reason.
So fire away. All right, as we go.
By the way. I will try to gauge or look like this in terms of understanding.
This is computer science basics, machine learning, understanding, that sort of thing.
You know, to navigate that can't keep it somewhere in the middle.
All right. Because I, I understand how frustrating it is to go to a basic stuff over and over when you would like to get to that.
But I will try to balance it out. All right.
So this is our. Plan.
These are the key topics that I will address. I think everything that is listed here will be covered and I will try to add as much.
Other stuff as possible. As I get to preparing all of the materials, most mostly the old stuff is already in there.
My 6481 experience. So we'll all have time together to.
All right. Let's go further to the two things that matter the most for some of you online students.
Just a reminder here, I will not be doing live streaming in class.
I try to do that for for for for a while in my other classes.
That is just a chore and it's not really helpful.
So I will know that your recordings will be posted in Blackboard.
I normally see them within a couple of minutes after the lecture is done, but it could be hours.
If it's not there, Contact support desk exams for the online section.
There is the name you should get familiar with Mr. Charles Card.
He does. He arranges all the online section exams.
I don't do that though, any for every single student on the online section.
Even if you're here every week. You have to talk to Mr. Scott before of exams to arrange.
This is where I will be taking your exams. I haven't looked where everyone is.
If there's someone in my section that is in California or Texas or something, there is testing centers.
Everything can be sorted out, but it has to go through.
Mr. Scott. No, the part, the hard part.
Grading. Rhythm assignments.
I don't know how many there will be, but I would expect four or five 20% of it rate are coming.
Assignments 2 to 4, depending on your python skills.
Okay. I I'm pretty, pretty surprised every every semester that a lot of people just struggle with it.
By the way, I will help you with every single programing assignment.
I will not solve it for you. But if you throw a question at me, Hey, how do I do that in Python?
Even if I don't know it? I will try to look it up for you if I have to exact.
All right. So don't sweat any 20% for your programing exams, both exams or 30% of your grade.
There is only a few undergrad graduates, so mostly this scale applies to you as is usual.
Now, this is probably something that you don't see in other courses.
This is. This is what you need to get on a. Word, we're going to start to get an A.
You need. To score 90% on the average of your belt exam has to be above 90%, and your total score for the course has to be above 90%.
That cleared. That's a lot. That is this is going to be a challenge.
I am ready to relax those rules a little bit.
Depending on how everyone performance.
But the reason I'm doing it that way is, once again, your exams are my only way to truly gauge vaccine selection.
So I've seen more cheating over the last three years that I care for.
Okay. I don't want. I don't want that. I want people who really work hard to be rewarded.
I don't want cheaters or dishonest people. I'm not accusing anyone of anything.
It's just pure statistics. Okay.
So, exams. Show me what you got.
We'll see after the first exam where the group stands, I might relax.
Those are all solo. So don't freak out just yet, but I have expectations when it comes to your exams exam, so you better get on it early.
Don't drop the ball. Okay? Oh, what else?
Is that clear? Okay.
Ethics. Well. He went through it time and time again.
I do. Ask you not to lie to me.
I get lightning every every semester, regardless of me saying that, but I really don't need that.
It just takes a lot of my time to track things, to correct things, to analyze things.
We can communicate. I understand that this is what usually happens.
People wake up after their first exam and said, Oh, my exam is my first exam.
It's bad. How do I get to an end? Right?
And this is where people will say, okay, maybe I should track this.
And then. It usually doesn't work on exams.
Oh, I don't want that. I don't want any sort of cheating.
You know that, right? Hey, if I find anything in your assignment, that is cheating.
No matter how small, you're getting zero points for the entire assignment and you get a reward.
Exactly. I will not be tolerating them. No tragedy exists or other tools exist.
I'm assuming most instructors are struggling with. How do you tackle that?
I want to know your guys. Both of your AA students or many of are as students.
I definitely want you to embrace it, but there is a line that has to be drawn.
So this is where I'm drawing. You are not allowed to use strategy or tools for your program.
Is that cool? Yes. I don't want people to come back to me.
Well, if I have to. Programing are things that are look almost exactly the thing that happens for some strange reason.
It's called coincidence, according to students.
And then they can say, Oh, you gave me the same suggestions.
We're not going to have that. Instead, please ask me if you need help with turning out like this again.
I will help. You don't have to cut corners.
It's okay not to know how to solve a certain part.
Okay. I'll help you.
For written assignments, you can use Chad GP2 to some degree, but you will have to document all your chargeability or any other air to air.
You will have to document it and add it to your report.
Okay. I use this prompt to solve this problem, to answer this question,
and I don't want you to use air tools to answer questions for you, but to help you understand.
Of course, I will not be keeping track of that. But let's have a healthy, healthy activity.
All right. Once again, I will not be monitoring what you do in your assignments, assignments or for you to learn and study exams.
It is where I'm going to pay a lot of attention.
It doesn't mean that you should go and cheat and cut corners with yourself because day assignments will help you really, really help you for exams.
Trust me. So is that cool? Everybody understands that.
Additional accommodations. If anyone needs accommodations based on some disability or anything of that nature.
There is KDR Center for Disability Resources and IAP can contact them and I'll order as best as I can and you request of that nature.
Great. Oh, yeah, that's it.
Any questions? No.
All right. Any requests? Oh.
I have fair warning. I'm not a comedian.
I'm not going to make that entertaining. I am.
If you stick with this course. I am cynical, I am sarcastic.
Sometimes I'm not politically correct.
I will try to keep my mouth shut. I will never, ever try to offend you.
If anyone feel that I offended you are saying something.
That was definitely not my intention. But these days everything is possible.
My English is secondary language. I think I'm fairly I'm doing well.
But I can make I make mistakes every once in a while. Call me on it, ask me to explain again, rephrase it, whatever.
If you need anything from me, ask for it. I don't handle entitlement well, so keep that in mind.
I owe you teaching. I owe you grading.
I owe you. Everything I have in terms of my knowledge, but that if anything,
anyone here has sort of as client service attitude towards academia, like you're paying tuition, this guy should be all helping me.
This is not how I work. Okay? I will not be responding to that.
This is not backed up and you are not allowed or that's too big of a word.
I will not respond well to two comments.
Hey, where is my second pickle? This is this is not how I work.
Okay. I will be respectful towards you.
I, I understand that I respect from you is not a given.
That's fine. Hopefully open it along the way.
In other words, I'm telling you all these things about my approach to teaching and my attitude towards certain things.
Because I want us to understand each other and go through the semester smoothly.
Okay. Oh, So have 2 minutes left.
Right. Anything else? Ready to learn something?
I promise you, some of that stuff is really boring. So get ready for it.
Really? Really not. Exciting something.
All right. If there's no questions, you know where to find me. Otherwise, I'll see you on the last day.
Read the syllabus. Make sure that you understand everything.
You later. Thank you. What do you mean?
I intended to do. Think.
You know. When the hearing ended, as I think I put it, a was like that.
I was like, not in the black community, you know.
We'll keep you updated. I think we may have lost the section where they all sort of very email support this.
I should be there. I'm not there. That's all I have to connect.
Is there anything they naked be going to be highlighted in this?
No, I. I'll take it for you, etc. You're not going to end up anybody who refused to play or they played.
They're different. There won't be at the end though.
I think all part of part time, which I was a little bit, but I think there is very little overall, there is not much of the know.
I think, you know, I think a lot of people look, I think you can make up your own brother, not your own right.
But I think for the most part, I think I have some planning.
Really. I would like to sort of, you know, you know, you're see, these great is not enough people think about by three other parts.
But I will point out that, you know, there's an old single from Spike Lee's right because I mean yeah I see programing as I know.
I hope them to be related to each other. I would definitely cumulatively make it.
Yes, I think that's good. Or at least some of it we'll be able to reduce some stuff.
Ultimately, what you do with the company are so we think there's all people see the challenges, see the complexity that comes with potential.
Stand by. Thank you very much.
All right. Any other questions? I think the message is ready, obviously, that you are okay.
You aggressively address the underlying position.
Okay. Yeah, I you go to Blackbird so people will see us resources, blah, blah, blah.
Click on there. There's a date application for grad students. I don't think you will get to this semester, but I will handle that.
Instructors don't handle that themselves like you as a grad student will have to fill out the form because it's a little late for that,
but you can still try it. Can I get in on the caller?
And he has lost your experience there.
So I thank you, Mike. I can't promise you that.
I don't decide. I don't know. I mean that certainly.
I think that's fine. That's that's what I look like you get.
I just wanted to ask, but this could be included in your movie, which will be 60 characters and not enough.
Thank you for that. That's good law practice bird theory before that.
So that what's better than what I did in my undergrad.
So.

