Yeah. Good morning.
Four of you. All right. Questions?
As it looks like it will be a very short review session. But before we get to you, let me finalize one thing and not be on the exam.
But I want to close. Material.
All part of the material. All of that anyway. Today, nothing has changed from Monday.
To Wednesday. Yesterday. Review sessions.
Demos. If you have demo here or programing assignment number two to here to this is the week to do it.
Optional. You can stop by my office hours and do that.
Uh, final exam is on Monday. Any questions about the exam?
Well, two things for today.
Let's talk about more detail.
Uh, when it comes to machine translation. Very short.
Let's call. Let's not even call it a lecture about it. But it shouldn't give you an idea how to approach the problem.
Uh, from a practical perspective, of course, everybody knows how that machine learning,
machine learning based, mostly neural network based machine translation exists.
Right? And it's pretty, pretty good for some languages and lots of others.
Uh, it's it's wordless that the tool that you're using, the problem is the same.
Right. Fine.
Mathematically speaking, you're, you're you're looking at two output sequences or two sentences in the first language and the one in another language.
And you your task is to find the best translation.
The best output sequence problem is obviously that you can have multiple translations of of of a single sentence.
Some of them will be better than others, but they will do.
Uh, how would you? Train your model or translation.
We talked about it a lot when we were discussing sequence to sequence models or encoder and decoder models.
We'll just have a specific data set and you will find quite a quite a lot of those.
Uh, online hugging face faces.
So what one possible source of that data.
Now data sets for translation are divided into certain categories.
They're all corpora which means that their bodies of text uh, but the the quality and the content differs between certain datasets.
The best is probably having a parallel corpora whatever where everything is exactly translated.
Well, because that's quite a bit of a bad word. Your head for the most part, we have everything translated as it as it's supposed to be.
Here are some examples. Uh, in popular novels, that nature translated to many languages can be part of your data set.
Um. There is an option of so-called payback language.
Data sets were especially useful when you're dealing with a less popular language.
Better words have a sort of a two step translation.
Though, from very popular language to less popular data for for other, uh, similar sub languages.
If you if you please. Does that make sense?
Local dialects. Does that make sense?
I think that's it. Okay.
Good. Now there's something that is going to be much, much more available, but at the same time a more challenging quality, comparable growth.
Here's a Wikipedia as an example. And as an example here you will have Wikipedia entries in different languages.
But if you if you're bilingual and you ever checked the Wikipedia entry for free or something in your native language and in English,
you will see that there is usually a difference.
For me, it's common that um, something that is global not have a shorter entry in English.
If it's something related to column, that is vice versa, obviously, but it is a choice.
Uh, technically speaking, you already know what you need to do as a as an underlying tool to perform your own machine translation.
You went through it because it was the sequence models. We went through it a little bit with, uh, transformers.
It's an encoder decoder. It's an ah, you.
Encoder and code source language sentence and passes in whatever is encoded into the decoder.
The decoder is encoded in until it. Produces the stop token or end of sentence token.
That's how it works. The difference is that the main I wouldn't say terribly significant difference is that
some of the closures will will only take the context vector or vectors as an input.
Some decoders will take that context vector or vectors plus the original sentence,
as well as an additional piece of information when it comes to translation.
But it's the process is the same.
All right. We talked about sequence to sequence. I don't think this wants to be.
Elaborated on these here in the public. Now, here's an important aspect of machine translation, because you know how to pull that off technically.
Now we should have a pretty good idea what kind of data sets to look for and how they are structured.
There is really nothing challenging in there.
But what about deciding whether my translation is good?
The valuation step is is quite challenging generally, I would say.
Just like evaluating the language. All of this is not easy.
Language models. We started with perplexity when we talked about glue last time, testing multiple aspects of the model as output.
Question answering all of all. That's.
What about machine learning translation? How would you know if you're bilingual?
How would you decide whether a translation is good or not?
Um. Um, yes. Go ahead. Um, maybe we can check if the medical is correct or not.
Okay, so grammatically correct and not not necessarily making sense, but grammatically correct.
That is good. Um, and then afterwards, if the meeting is preserved or not or anything got lost in translation.
All right. That's perfect. If the meaning is preserved.
Right, how do you you look at it as a bilingual person and you see that this is this is, um, I will change a word here or there.
But what if. What if it's the machine has to do it.
She has to look at it and calculate something and tell you this is a good translation or not.
You will see. You will see a metric right in a moment.
And it's it's. Whether you will agree with me, but to me it's fascinating.
Crudités. I'm going to eat it. I mean, yeah, any other idea you can translate to the second language and the first one?
Oh, that's a great idea. Translated that as if you're getting the same thing.
That's what it is.
Another challenge with that. Yeah. You know, I have two translators.
I mean, and one of them can be terrible, right? So you don't know.
Right. Okay.
How? First of all, the idea that the beam search that I mentioned,
that the mandate applies here as well, specifically for translation, always searching for.
Different options. So you could think of.
Evaluating. Let's start talking about evaluated internal evaluation by the pilot language in translating um model.
That's evaluating multiple options at the same time.
Right. It's building a translation. And it's it's typical that it's not just looking at a one progression of words and a look.
It's looking at multiple ones. And this is where this being surge that I describe money is in use very often.
Machine translation. I'm not going to go talk about it again.
Now about the final. Yes I know what you assign a score to the translation.
So when we're talking about local being search, we're not really assigning a score to translation.
We're assigning a score to grammatical correctness or likelihood.
Yes. Of of of the sentence being produced by right now by our client.
Right. Okay. Does that make sense? Yeah. So that's what the model is doing internally until it gives you that.
This is my final translation. Just one sentence.
I will look at a couple that I see unfold, and I will keep calculating probability of the entire sentence.
And you already know how to calculate probabilities of sentences.
Right. So I have multiple options the translator will take.
The one that gives me the highest probability for an entire something.
But this is more language model based than translation evaluation.
If anything. Okay, I'm just actually a little bit confused with how quickly I just like certain like for example,
certain languages, generally English, it could be grammatical and perhaps quite likely, but just wrong.
Hmm. That makes sense. It does make sense.
Like like for example, imagine a, uh, computers like you translate it to the money is called an electric brain.
Very. Romantically incorrect, but not the correct phrase.
So jarring. Right? Yeah. It's jarring, but then you're just, um, translating that one word.
It's really hard. Like probability. Uh, he would want it to correct.
Like, how would you search? Like you would and that, like something that is more about how we're deciding the probability about it.
So with that we would have to go to the to go entire language model.
How is it built. Is those sentenced probabilities are based on what it was trained on and how how much quality that training provided.
Right? If I mean.
The less resource you have, the less data you have to train, the less quality you will have in your predictions.
Right? So I can't give you a perfect answer.
It's just expect your models to be wrong in that sense.
A jarring sense for a while,
especially in languages that are where you where you don't have that significant amount of data available doesn't just like image.
It seems I see the same thing with Paul is when I see Google translating things from me, and I don't even use it.
I'd rather do it myself.
And like, what if we have production rooms in the target time and try to research into which production actually has the highest probability?
So we have different production models and and, and different translation models.
Right. And where you're comparing this is where talking as a.
First, here's an approach. This is one of the common metrics for for machine translation.
But before we. Well, let's let's just go over it and go back to other things.
Um. First, first bullet point right here.
The idea is to compare translations.
You do have some expectations, right? When you're training here, you're a translator.
You have some base truth available, right?
After all, you're training your model on input outputs.
The sequence itself, input in one language, expected output in another language.
Nothing is stopping you from having the same input sentence with multiple alternative translations, right?
That's possible. And the way the scoring approach works is it would look.
So we're talking about testing the model right. It's trained.
We know we we feed uh as input.
We know we feed known sentences with known expected outputs.
And we scored the way the score works.
It's it's comparing how many. Parts of the expected translation and the produced translation.
How much overlap is there between them? Like little, little you?
How much how many words sequences are in?
The expected translation and the output translation.
Does that make sense? It's you're not really comparing.
Sentence to sentence. You're just scanning it. And this is where the concept of engrams is very important.
You're scanning first of using uni grams, right.
Um, are am I seeing the expected words in in the translated sentence?
And you're moving to bigrams, am I am I seeing word pairs?
Expected word first in in in the produce sentence.
Does that make sense. And then trigrams that I don't know that have you.
The example that I have here is just stopping here. So there's various variance levels to it.
This one uses for four types of of engrams one gram unigram, bigram, trigram, um for room as a comparison matrix.
And then it just multiplies what what came out to give you give you some scores.
So here's here's how it works okay.
Here is unigram precision. These are these on the on the right are test set.
Translations. These are the expected. Expected translations.
I'm not English. Oh, German speaking person.
But this is based on, uh, from a sentence in English.
Something about football. I mean, football fans.
As in soccer. Team that that that is mentioned played yesterday.
But that's in there. Yes. I am not.
And you are looking at right outside. Right. Trying to kind of see what's in the target language didn't necessarily might not be next to each other.
So that's not condoning. If that's the case, if that's the case, it will come down.
This is not a perfect way of scoring.
But then again, then again, if the if there is a particular way of translating a two words phrase into a four word phrase in another language.
Parts of it should should overlap at least, right?
So a bigram parts of that foreground expect that one should be captured and raised, though that is not going to be perfect.
Okay. You're just essentially counting counting overlaps here.
You're not looking at the meaning at all. You're not looking at the grammatical structure, just sequences of words.
Does that make sense? Unigram precision. Right here.
Calculate how many how many expected union grams are showing up in the vector in the produce translation bigram.
Probably grow that program and use that formula.
To calculate the final score. That is an automated way of doing that.
Was that right by calling it crude? Yes.
Pretty crude that you guys are researchers come up with something better.
I don't. Otherwise, you can ask someone to sit down and evaluate translations.
I don't think that would work well. Right? But hey.
Actually. Is it? Is it? Is it such a bad idea?
We talked about Gpt3 being, uh, using human reinforcement learning.
Right? Someone is sitting down and constantly probing GDP to produce answers and then evaluate scores them those answers.
And the GPD gets improved and improved through that process.
Hire someone bilingual and score that translation.
So I don't see a problem with that except that it doesn't scale, obviously, but it's an object.
Exact match. As in, I have a certain expectation, right?
If that expectation is not produced, if the exact expected sentence is not produced by my translator, my translator at that.
Okay. So. That's pretty much it.
When it comes to, um, machine learning, translation, um, scoring and setting.
Setting the problem up. So for what you need a data set that has two parts input and expected output.
You need an encoder decoder structure to be trained, whether it's Rand LSTMs or just or take your Poisson.
But when it comes to scoring or testing, your your virtual translator will.
There's nothing. Well, there might be bearings of that there a bit better.
But this is, this is this is a typical approach.
Questions. The question is, is this going to be on the exam?
The answer is no. All right.
Speaking of existing review. Not.
It's for you, not for me. I don't know what's underneath here.
Did you get, like, a break? Clobbered in the Transformers?
Okay. Anybody else? Transverse? Okay.
Uh, ask me, what are my expectations when it comes to transformers on the exam, or what do you think my expectations are for the exam?
I think so you might be expecting that, you know, dogs, lovers and.
At work. There might be some minor calculation somewhere, I don't know.
Uh, the bottom line is, the more time you should know that line.
But by now, the more time I spend on explaining something, the more likely it is that I will.
I can ask you to explain the whole transfer from the ground up.
Uh, I'll leave that one. Let's go back.
So is there a specific part about of transport crews that is not clear?
I just I kind of want to get. Yeah.
So? Here.
Okay. That's part of our problem. So all of them look more or less the same.
They might have more layers here on either encoder decoder side.
But okay, start the input tax and position that.
But but before we do that it's an encoder decoder structure.
Input text gets fed into an encoder.
Whatever happens here is essentially a way of summarizing the input text.
Input text embeddings into other embeddings that are meant to convey what's in the original sequence.
Plus. Context.
Context as in or whatever itself, attention produces. Does that make sense?
So whatever happens here is just this packaging of of the original input sequence with the context,
self-attention the main context, and producing another set of vectors.
So say that again I have five embedding vectors coming in.
I will get five embedding vectors coming out. But those vectors will will be some representations of the original input including the context.
Does that make sense at the same time.
And this one is trickier. Or we have to decoder. And if you remember sequence to sequence uh decoders.
Sequence to sequence encoder weight one word at a encoder.
Encode encode. Produce the context. Pass it to the decoder.
Decode decode decode as in.
Let's do this. By the way, I'm expecting you, as usual, for, um, for the end of the semester.
It's the usual complaint, uh, that I see in due course review.
Why are you drawing this garbage in on your computer?
Use a board. Trust me, you're better off watching his garbage on my computer.
Now, whatever I'm doing here. That's one argument.
I'm not going to stop doing.
The other argument is, uh, there is to online sections and really what's what's what's on that board is not captured as well as a computer screen.
That's that's not my excuse. But in any case, let's throw some more garbage.
So here's the encoder right. The transformer encoder.
And well. Produce.
Some set of z vectors in the presentation context vectors by multiple vectors probably rolling into one vector or even a matrix,
though we can think of now that the coder was the decoder and knows that.
Let's say we're doing translation right. The decoder knows it's time to work.
So the decoder will take in a token indicating starting the word.
It could be something such as beginning of sentence.
Or you have to actually go, right. This will pass the decoder at some point.
And you can see it here. There is.
And the pension layer of attention layer that is connected to the anchor in the middle of it, right?
This is a subtle so-called cross attention layer where input and output are meeting.
And being. Align. Remember alignment matrix.
Not all will go back to. Okay.
Is that the one with, like, the the light colors on the diagonal? Yes.
Oh. But then the attention matrix can look like that too.
But little colorful dots. But attention matrix aligns input with input.
Alignment metrics will align well compared.
Inputs as produced by the encoder. With whatever output the decoder is not producing.
Okay. So this is a cross attention right here.
That's some other layers and a word in use a token.
First token. Does that make sense.
Now, if you remember a sequence to sequence the encoder decoder structure, we were feeding the output to the input of the decoder.
This is exactly what is happening here. So when you mention sequence to sequence, that means that like you just take it out.
We're putting it back into. Yes. That's that's that's how decoders work here as well.
It's producing one token at a time.
So whatever, whatever that was in here, let's say let's call it x ray will be fed back to another iteration.
Through the same decoder structure. Context will be passed.
And same thing. Next word. Next word.
Until here we will get an and of sentence token.
This was this will be a predicted token based on whatever came in earlier.
This is time to end this sentence. When was this token shows up?
This is our output. All right.
So what I'm insisting on new understanding is that this decoder, decoder, uh, side of things is used in the same fashion as the decoder in our.
And then our Lstm, which is just being recycled. Output input.
Keep going. Keep going until the entire sequence is produced.
Cool. All right. Notice that it has its own self-attention layer as well.
All right. So is it is the whole idea here clear the difference between sequence to sequence.
Uh, RNA in the real estate with M encoder decoder structure.
And this transformer encoder decoder structure is first and foremost the existence of self-attention.
Self-attention allows to take the entire input sequence at once by a decoder,
where a sequence to sequence had to go one after one after one after one, until the whole sequence is produced.
So. The benefit of that approach is taking an entire sequence at once.
It's a performance benefit because we can process everything in parallel.
Transformers. Parallelization. Sequence to sequence.
Not so much in at all. Okay. We're so good.
Wait, so. So you're saying this is parallel because you can put all the words which into encoder?
Yes. But the decoder side is the sequential decoder is.
Decoder is inferring words one at a time.
When it's being trained, it actually gets the whole predicted and expected sequence and ones as well.
Remember the masked self-attention? So very much like, um, since it's an agrarian, it wouldn't really make sense to be parallel.
Mostly of parallelization. Uh, parallelization is enabled, uh, as compared to sequence to sequence parallelization is enabled by self-attention here.
Even even even even if we're looking at the decoder side where it's just going one one at a time,
the whole self-attention matrix is can be producing masked self-attention matrix can be produced in parallel.
That is the key aspect here is that. Or do you want to hear a phrase I just said?
Okay. So. Encoder decoder.
Same idea in principle a sequence to sequence.
In practice, self-attention allows us to to parallelize the process and.
Potentially speed it up because of that? No. Do I need to explain self-attention again, or is that clear?
Multi-head self-attention. Is that concept clear?
Yes. Um, but you be asking multi-head self-attention numerically in the finals.
Yeah. Multi-head some attention there. And what?
But if you insist. I know you know me.
No, I. Well, here's the thing I.
If I, if I felt that it matters. Right.
I would consider it. But then again, you know, you still a better be question on on the midterm.
This is too much. I was the there was too much.
I don't intend to force you into repeating same same any calculations over and over just because I asked you to do that.
Okay. So. Yes.
No. Uh, so when we talk about software.
So the encoder things, um, attention scores, the one to the softmax to the decoder.
Right. It doesn't send attention scores. Attention scores are being used to.
Modify the input embeddings. Okay.
So it's just the context code. And we put more bugs.
So that actually causes of attention in our attention here.
And then for meanings of attention spans.
So every every self-attention layer will be calculating attention scores or alignment scores as part of the process.
But those scores are just a just a step.
Okay. Here's. Here's the idea.
Um. Here's a vector representing a word.
Here is a vector representing another work, right? Uh, query.
Be Mary. Keep, right?
If I want to see how much this word is related to that word, right.
I would take the query of this word and compare it with the key of that word.
This will produce the attention score. Then I softmax it out or whatnot.
But this attention score let's call it x okay will be then used to multiply.
The original vector by it. In other words, remember we're looking at a at the self-attention right here from the perspective of this guy.
I'm I'm the guy querying all the other words.
I want to see how all the other words are aligned with me. How much attention should I pay to this word?
And another one and another one and another one. So that multiplier will change the values inside here and produce another version of that,
either by reducing values with x is low or if it's higher, it will just bump it up.
Okay. Okay. So uh, what example what what is the what who is asking for the prediction.
So that will produce a key query and bring in a key.
Yes. Once devise a self-attention predictions go all of that central value and they are multiplied.
Let me see if I can say that I have a sequence of three words, right.
I will have to go with every single one of them. There is a there is an input embedding representation of every single one of them.
Okay. I will check.
I will calculate self-attention for every single word here.
I will start with this one. Well this is produced.
The query will be produced and matched with key here.
Key of my own. And the key of the third word. This will end up I guess I should.
I don't want to draw this thing for you to complain about.
There you go. So I'm looking at the first word, right?
The value is is as this information kind of garbled complete embedding from the from the input key is
a small vector that is kind of summarizing what's in that vector query is similar to the key part.
So now I will go to every word in my word embedding in my sequence of four.
For every single one of them I will calculate, okay, how close am I to myself.
Pretty close. So this is going to be some high score. How close am I to the second word.
So my first word query with the second word key.
First word quick query with the third work right.
This will give me I have four words in the sequence.
I will have four weights. I will use those weights.
And that will do it forever. For the other three words as well.
So I will end up with 16. Wait. Once I have those weights, once again I will go through the process one word at a time or one token at a time,
and I will multiply like my internal representation by that weight.
Okay, so if I'm using myself as a reference to that, that multiplication should not change me a lot.
But here, let's say that the second word is not related to me very much.
Let's use a low multiplier to produce a new vector where the values are reduced.
Okay. Third word for word. And then we will sum it up.
So in the end I will have a sum of all those four words squished.
But it's in such a way that the words that mean the most from the perspective of this first word will have their values.
Raised and the ones that don't mean anything to me that their values will be lower.
Does that make sense? Yeah. Um, okay. This means that we have more parameters to build, and then we have more data.
Right? So I think for each word we have query.
Okay. Okay. But that's an intermediate process.
Notice that I start with four vectors and four embedding vectors.
Let's say that they're of of length ten. They're reduced to query key and value.
Let's say that value is the longest out of those. And it's probably shorter than the original embedding.
So let's say the value is five. The original was ten.
Query is probably three. Key is three something smaller because we need quicker computation right.
So this will get multiplied by a scalar.
I said, what was it? Dimension five, size five. This will still be five.
This will still be five. Vector of size five plus vector.
Pointwise plus vector. Size five. Vector of size five.
This is what will be output here from one.
One self-attention processing for this word.
For the second one, I will get another one z2.
And third and fourth. Z1, z2, z3, z for our representations with context of the original words.
Okay, so I'm not keeping the query. I'm not keeping the key.
I'm not keeping the value as an out there. It just means to an anything.
I want to produce a representation with context of whatever it came in.
This is without context. This is without attention.
This contains some form of relating individual words in a sequence together.
Does that answer your question? Okay. All of this had been right.
Yes. That's the beauty of it. Because I can do this if I if you give me the entire sequence, right, I can do it on my own.
While you are working on the second word, you don't have to.
And then we just join forces. Here's my z vector. Here's my z vector encoder.
Don't ship it to the decoder okay.
Yes. So for this calculation there's 16 ways there would be 16 ways because how does multi-headed I guess what are the multi.
And it would be. Multiple versions of that.
Same input. Notice there's there's weight matrices here.
Right. They're being used to produce these queries.
And that is they're the same for this have the same different head will have different weights.
It will produce its own queries and keys.
But it will work in the same fashion. It will produce another set of z vectors just representing select something different.
So not multi-head it works exact.
Not exactly. Very similar to the convolutional neural networks.
I take one image, give it to multiple filters.
Hey you guys, filter it out. Give me see what's in there and then we'll just aggregate it.
Here we have instead of filters we have, uh, self-attention hats.
This self-attention hat is responsible for uh, grammar.
This one is responsible for our named entity recognition data that I have to train to capture that.
Of course, when you're training that model, you're not telling it.
Hey, you focus on this or just happen automatically.
That's your question. I don't know.
So, so so this is this is I don't yeah.
I don't get what the competition is for Motorhead protection.
So you're you're doing X time. Next time death.
Like for this with this four W's. I know this more x's so I would have to respond to 16 bit.
But you're all already you're putting all X's in the same time.
Okay, so let me just grab that. So right here and we have an input sequence where words embedded.
Right. Here's one self-attention head.
Here's another self-attention. Let's say that there's three of them.
Yes. Goes. Into the first.
That this does the thinking that.
This goes to the third AD.
Does that make sense?
And then every single one of them will produce for z vectors different z vectors as a representations, their own representations of of the inputs.
More vectors for vectors. Inside.
I will have 16 ways. 16 ways.
16 ways in completely different ways. Completely used for free.
For completely different things. Does that answer your question?
And that set of 12 context vectors will be what is being fed to.
Are those not on those output embeddings right here.
Those those. These on there.
Right here. So these are representations of the original sequence.
Do we need to know how do I guess what the 16 weights mean for each of those multi-headed attention.
Uh, we don't need to know what they mean.
They're meant to represent how important the third word is to the first word, or the fourth word is to the first one.
Good. Yes. Yeah. So this trade for signal type certification price has many parameters in it.
Right. Because now we are dealing with three of one.
Can I can you rephrase that.
Okay. So this will help price single. Okay. Yes.
You will have twice as many. Great. Let's see an example here.
I mean I we don't don't even comparison in terms of what's inside.
I wouldn't do that. Conceptually they're trying to capture different nuances.
Every every convolution, every filter is like a single hat that is focused on something specific.
In convolution, you could use it for text, but only use for images.
One aspect of the image, one filter, right edges or arcs, whatever.
Here where will be one has will be co focused on one linguistic feature of the input sequence.
Another hat, another linguistic feature. Whatever it is, it will not be spelled out for a transformer.
It will learn as it goes to capture that.
Just like in convolutional neural networks, the filters are being learned.
Does that make sense? Um. I'm sorry. Not.
No. It's okay. But fully connected networks like the normal multilayer perceptron.
Because I had a, I guess let's say there are any words that it will have any weights.
And here for each word there are always like query, key and value.
So this will have provided me instead of like, uh, a multi-head like a single head.
All right. So more than that, because we do have a pre-trained weight matrices.
Uh, we don't initialize them that heavily. When you're training them, you initialize them randomly.
So every head will have its own different initialized weight matrices.
Once it is trained, this remains fixed. It's being used to.
Here is and the input embedding produces a query key and value vector for me.
So it's a sort of the transformation transformation matrices right.
Once the model is trained this is unchanged.
Yes. But just like in feedforward network weights are fixed.
This will be dynamically produced every time a new sequence comes in.
Okay. So this is going to be uh wq the weight vector for the query will have a size of one.
One dimension will be the size of the query vector. The other dimension, it will be the size of the uh input embedding and so on and so on.
So a weight matrix. Weight matrix.
Weight matrix. Query vector key vector value vector.
So there's a lot of going on in this self-attention.
Uh, parameter wise. Trainable parameter wise.
This is this is where it's at for, for a single head.
This is it. They're just being reused here.
Same matrix. Another head. Another.
I'm sorry. Another set of these. Capturing different linguistic aspects of the English sequence.
Does that answer your question? Yes.
Do you have another business card?
Uh, no. I don't.
I don't have any. The ones that I gave you for the midterm.
Because something I already asked.
I, I would love to give you something, but I simply don't have the time to come up with that letter, so I don't think you'll read it.
You know what? If I have time, I'll.
I'll cook something. I'm not promising anything, but I don't want to.
The questions in that quiz would be very selected,
and I don't want you to get an impression that this is what matters the most to me for the next day.
Does that make sense? Yeah. I just wanted to be you.
Same answer here. I. I don't want to build expectations that it will not be reflecting the exam.
Because I want to give you a good idea. I would have to ask you about every single.
Part of the material in those quiz questions that have come up.
Um. Type of vision.
Midterm exam is a good reference point. Uh, will spare you, uh, midterms kind of question.
Much like you, repetitive computation, that will be nothing of that sort.
Uh, there will be there were multiple choice questions on the.
But there were there will be either a single short answer questions or multiple choice questions on that exam because we covered a lot of stuff that.
Or for practical reasons, it's difficult to just get some practice right.
So, um, I don't know. All right.
That's right. I will not. I promise I will not ask you to.
Here is. Here is Lstm with four gates.
Now here is an input. Calculate the output. I'm not going to do that because it makes no sense to me.
But I may ask you what is this component.
Do it. Yeah Lstm you understand the kind of questions more than hey, I buried this detail in one of the lectures in the middle of the slide 54.
I wonder if they will remember that I'm not like if you were in class or you watched all the lectures and paid attention,
you should not have any problems with those kind of questions.
They will not be. Here is another really obscure aspect of the material that I would not like to know.
It may feel to some of you as it is. I've never seen that before, but that's not my intention.
I don't know that that. Help! Don't do it.
You teach. It is allowed. Just as I said.
If you. I will not be giving you the.
Scratch paper. This.
Some people go for the record, especially in this group bringing 20 chains.
I'm not joking. That's actually what happened during the midterms, so I'm not going to let that happen here.
The desk in front of you is your exam paper and one cheat sheet.
If you can't get up printed on both sides, printed on two separate sheets, staple it.
If you don't have a stapler, I will have one last staple before your exam.
There's your cheat sheet, two sides, one page, and there's your exam paper.
I will add extra black pages to your exam so you have enough space to write on a cheat sheet one whatever you can put on it.
Is for you. Okay.
Where were we? Transformers. Back to Transformers. Or something else.
Could you explain the structure? Yeah, now that I brought it up.
Very well. What I to do it.
Here. One.
Oh, dear. Hey, here's something else.
Do you know, is it clear for any for everyone why LSTMs were developed as a kind of replacement of RNA in.
I can go over that again. Could you go first?
So here is an RNN cell, right?
The main the main idea behind RNN as a recurrent neural network cell is to have a state memory to remember what happened before.
This is just you can call it short term memory as an end.
The longer the sequence, the stuff that was back in the day will not be remembered and encoded here.
Well, as few steps back will be captured here.
All right. No.
What's happening inside this RNA cell is we're taking the input.
This is some embedding, right. And we mix it with the previous state.
That previous state is is a way of providing context of what happened just before.
Does that make sense. So we want to preserve that.
And for the next iteration we want to generate a new.
State to remember for another or another cycle.
Does that make sense? Those state.
Hidden states are vectors. Those vectors are produced based on what comes in as an input, which is another vector along the way.
They are multiplied by a weight. Matrices.
We have two weight matrices here input weight matrix and hidden state weight matrix.
You can think of those matrices as the one deciding what matters.
In the input. What matters in the hidden state?
Those matrices are pre-trained and ones that, uh, are then cell is deployed.
It's just they are being reused.
Now, no matter what the input is, no matter what happened before those two weight matrices, you matrices UMW stayed the same.
In other words, every word is treated the same way.
Does that make sense? Same aspect of of those work where the embeddings are being treated multiplied the same way.
Is that good? You just talked about self-attention, right?
Where every word was looked at from a different perspective.
If I needed and if the self-attention needed to, it would bump up the values if it needed to.
It would just reduce values. Here. It's not happening.
Everyone is being treated. Every possible ward is being treated the same way.
Is that clear? Lstm.
Essentially what that input, what it does. If it makes that computation multiplication by those weights, they are dynamic.
Dynamic in a sense that there's. Three gates.
Actually let's let this vector in.
Open the gate. Let's close the gate to just reduce the effect of the vector here.
Input vector or hidden state vector doesn't matter.
This these gates are opening depending on and closing depending on what what comes in opening and closing is.
A is a terrible analogy here, because it means it suggests that not everything is being passed through,
everything passes through, but its impact is being reduced.
So if I have a vector of size five, a vector of size five will go through the gate.
But the values inside the vector will be either reduced or amplified.
That is the effect of the gate. So. Three gates.
They are working in me in a similar fashion.
Who knows? Next. Then. Wait.
Matrices. But now.
I have something dynamic, and I think it is kind of like this mechanism of engine of Prudhoe.
Prudhoe, attention. Because if you care support, get it right, it decides how much of the previous state should be forgotten.
This doesn't matter to us anymore. Does that answer your question?
More or less. There's way more to it. But the truth is, I need to keep our pretreatment changed throughout the process.
You can say that again we get one inch.
Between in. Every gate is its its own feedforward neural network.
Yeah, well. They all work together.
That's that's very important. And they produce just like in RNA.
And they produce the output and they produce news state actually the Palestinians produce two state vectors, a cell state and the hidden state.
Just think hidden state. Short term memory cells state.
Long term memory. So far so good.
Know you can see it here. There is a.
Multiplication right here. Multiplication. What's multiplied is.
Previous hidden state mixed with the current input and based on that current input.
Those feedforward networks inside the cells, quote unquote, inside the cells will produce, uh, another vector.
And then that will be. Like. Here.
This means the output of a of of a of a gate will be, uh, a reducer or amplifier.
The external. Does that make sense?
So weights here will be fixed, right. But what comes out and makes a final decision.
What is being multiplied by what is that is dynamic.
Does that answer a question? If I had to summarize that issue of can I say that it's just an audit?
And with some context, I would disagree with that.
Both work both at the context of Palestinians capture more context and more memory because it is able to capture long term relationships,
and short term can only come to short term.
This is a nebulous term, but there is some.
Correspondents do it. Um. In LSTMs every input.
Has an influence on on on the on the way.
The and LSTMs inputs have more influence on how the hidden state is being what gets remembered then in the RNNs.
In our RNNs, the ability to regulate, that is.
Sort of limited by that those fixed matrices.
Does that help? So, you know, whatever the output is for 1% from the posted, it will get stored in a cell.
But it's I mean for the next iteration I think. Right.
Mhm. Well that is some more context to that.
So number one in Lstm what is being fed to the next iteration is two to state vectors cell state and internal state.
So there is more information right out of the gate. One once again is long term.
The other one is short term.
And altogether, though the hidden states are so hidden state and the input have much more say in deciding what is being remembered,
what is being said, what is forward? What is being forgotten?
The steady state is the long term. Cell state will be the long term.
Think about it as as we. So, uh, quotation mark.
Right. Let's remember it because this is the beginning of a quotation.
That quotation can last for two paragraphs or half a page.
Right. This is a long term relationship. So Lstm will latch on to that.
If it's trained well it will latch on to it. And it will remember until the input includes another quotation mark.
Oh, and here all those gates will figure it out. All right.
This is the moment to forget about the quotation mark because we closed close the sequence.
Does that make sense? So the c vector will be the memory set.
Here comes the quotation mark. This is the start of the quotation mark.
We should be looking for another quotation mark, but the edge would be just crossing the edge.
I think it's it's very difficult to, to, to,
to think in those terms that there is a specific value in that cell vector that remembers these quotation marks naturally.
The hidden state will be just remembering. But what was in that few prior inputs?
Less context. Less context, or very, very, very nearby context cell state will just span much longer.
Not as the span of the list is, regardless of the cell state being out of here.
The span captured by by hostnames is not called as long as transformers, for example.
But it's better than our reliance. This is a sequential.
It is a sequential model. It takes in one part of an input at a time.
Decides what to remember about it, what to mix it in with for the future states.
And this will be at the. I was so paired with the comment this would be slower than the transfer of variables here.
Uh, entering the parallel versus sequential territory, right?
There's nothing stopping you from running a transformer on a sequential, uh, single computer, making it sequential.
Write one self-attention and another one and another one, and then just aggregate in versus.
You do this, you do this, and then we'll aggregate. If that was the case, I would never say that the transformer is going to be fast.
It's the parallelism that makes the transformer faster them.
All right. Then of course, you know the number of parameters inside and all matters.
It's difficult to compare, but it's I would say it's the parallelism that makes the transformer shine here.
You're paying. You're paying with the transformer. You're paying with, with, with the size because they're usually larger and more parameters.
And then it's therefore difficult to keep it on the same level.
Yes, yes. So um, I do I have like there's a general question.
Yeah. Like. How do they like, um, to get there in the large language.
Like so. Very much like the images.
Right. And. I guess that's a bonus.
Do you think you're better for it? Um.
I like to [INAUDIBLE]. So it's a great question.
Why are one model some models used more for this?
I forget this area. Like why is it right for like CNN can be used for language.
There's nothing stopping you from using CNN for that exact.
They? Well, long story short, CNN's were born in the image processing area.
Self-attention is sort of the equivalent of of of CNN's in the language in LP domain.
You could use self-attention for images as well.
And this is just numbers, vectors of numbers. There's nothing stopping you from building that.
The key I think is. I would say that Transformers are going to be much more efficient when it comes to language than convolutional neural networks.
That's why I looking at this first thing, because we use it as before, which is like I'm delivering.
Like I would say, some sexy talking. I like a question for me, like we're not looking at like a lot of topics, you know, like a single topic.
I understand that, like, I. I live somewhere in there.
Like. I would.
I would say this would be assuming saying that CNN are useless for language processing is an illusion
and not useless accepted by the time people through using CNN for language are RNNs and self-attention.
All this stuff came in and just superseded CNN and no one ever went back.
Does that make sense? No. But people have tried NLP with attention and it was just better than CNN.
Forget about CNNs. Let's just keep improving attention mechanism going to Transformers and whatnot.
Another major difference is that transformers or sequence to sequence models are made to process sequential data.
CNNs you have to add a little more to the.
Does that make sense? Yeah. And, uh, you know, I was like.
But, you know, this topic just gone viral, and I'm like, no, it's there or.
Something. So are you guys asking, is there any practical reason why I would go through CNN, Z and LSTMs and the Transformers?
Um, or like, we're all or nothing.
We were like, um. Um, I like everything.
Uh, if it's all their language and all that. Oh, okay.
So let's let me start with us. You know. Right.
He. Here.
There you go. Here's, uh.
Matt. Well, Mike. One too many. Really?
Image captioning system. We're.
Which is based on RNNs and LSTMs, but it has a CNN convolutional neural network component that summarizes what's in the image.
Now here's just one example how those two work together.
GPT four. I'm not saying that it's using CNN, but it's fuzing images and text at the same time.
So it has to have components that are working with images.
Potentially more useful. Uh.
The major reason behind me explaining CNN is something like this where you would be.
All the rage right now is just building in building images based on text or or generating summarizing images with images of any matter.
You're here. CNN, out of all these, structure is probably the least important for you.
But if you were to build a system with text and images of the same time, very it's very likely that you will need that understanding.
Now are and LSTMs transformer there is a is I'm sorry I'm going over time.
So I need to quickly think there is a historical timeline.
Right? Right as I was it was Transformers that are better better better.
Now the problem with transformers is that it's very hard to it's impossible to build something.
Uh oh. GPT scale on your own computer or even on on a single machine.
Powerful, but single machine RNNs. And then you can do that.
Performance will be slightly lower than a GPT model, but you can pull that off on a single machine.
So. There's there's. Use cases for, for any, any of those and really most,
most new architectures that show out there good doing those fantastic things are are
being different approaches or different models layered or stuck together or interacting.
This this was my idea behind, uh, introducing all of that.
Does that answer question? Uh, all right. We're out of time.
Anything else? Oh, and then I'll see you on Monday.
You. Know what?
I'm saying to that question about, uh, similar attention.
So what I'm thinking this CNN using kernel, it captures bindings between, let's say I places like I was trying to find attention between that time.
But the feature. Yes. What self-attention is trying to do is it's trying to find context between some part of the sentence.
Right. Actually within part of the sentence.
So okay. Or CNN, you know, if I just focus on.
That is one of the moments where self-attention will look at the entire sequence.
Okay. That's why we are preferring self-attention, because we now get the context of the whole sentence.
Yeah. In that sense, it says it's better for that. Okay.
That's what I mean with CNN. You could pull that out by having more filter.
Well, is the story of a bigger size of filter bigger, bigger filters, more filter connections,
or just packaging the input in a way that would help the filter to take something first place, or at least until she came up out of everyone.
Whatever. So one thing I noticed when I was trying to use CNN with language and give better accuracy, I think.
I think I've done the transformer because I think so that it was learning it well, but I think so.
It didn't generalize it because, I mean, it was just fitting the spots, but it was not learning the challenges of sentences.
But transformer did it. But it did give me a good sentence, uh, meaningful sentence.
But the CNN couldn't get it. It's a matter of perspective, right?
Yeah, I think so. That's what I'm you.
